# fMRI_classification
Underpinning many daily activities, in health and disease, across the age span,cognition refers to a range of mental processes relating to the acquisition, manipu-lation, and retrieval of information. Towards the association of cognitive state andbrain activities, this project evaluates and compares Deep Learning (DL) models topredict human cognition from whole-brain functional Magnetic Resonance Imag-ing (fMRI) data. Here, cognition can be separated into multiple distinct functions,each dependent on particular brain circuits. In this project, we tried two differentapproaches and two models for each approach – each of which is based on dif-ferent spatial correlations in the neuroimaging datasets. The first model is basedon the Convolution Neural Network (CNN) and the second is based on both theCNN and Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM). Due to computational limitations,undersampling on some datasets was needed.  Undersampling was also used toensure the same number of images during training and testing.  Overfitting wasexpected since the models were trained with limited data, howver, the results aftertraining and testing were close to the state of the art.  We found that using the3D-convolutional approach resulted in better performance that slicing the images –which we expect is partially due to the model exploiting higher-order correlations.This was combared to a bidirectional LSTM, when we deal with time series dataset.Challenges faced included the high dimensionality, low sample size and complexspatio-temporal structure in these data.
